## RNADigestCID
RNADigestCID can preform theoretical calculations on RNase digested RNA sequences and mass. It can further calculate RNA sequences and mass generated by collision-induced dissociation (CID) in mass spectrometry. The outputs can serve as a reference database for RNA modifications mapping. To run RNADigestCID, 1) install R and run "Rscript Executable.R" in terminal. This script will install required packages and make all R scripts executable ; 2) Create a blank txt file named "FileDirect.txt" in the working directory. The txt will record input file directories.

### Calculate RNase digested RNA sequences and mass
Download and save RNA sequences in fasta format.
<br /> Paste fasta file path to the first line of FileDirect.txt.
<br /> In terminal, run: ./RNase( ).R
<br /> The output csv file will be saved in the working directory.

### Calculate CID fragmentation RNA sequences and mass
Paste file path of RNase digested sequences spreadsheet to the second line of FileDirect.txt.
<br /> In terminal, run: ./CID_( ).R
<br /> The csv file with CID fragmentation RNA sequences and mass will be saved in the working diectory.

### Calculate CID fragments mass after base loss
Paste file path of RNA CID fragmentation spreadsheet to the third line of FileDirect.txt.
<br /> In terminal, run: ./CID_a-B.R
<br /> The csv file with CID base loss RNA sequences and mass will be saved in the working directory.

### Calculate mass of the modified RNA ions
RNAmod.R can calculate mass of the modified RNA precursor and product ions.
<br /> RNAmod.R uses csv files to calculate mass of the modified precursor and product ions. The second line of FileDirect.txt specify file path for a RNase digested precursor spreadsheet, while the third line specify file path for a CID product spreadsheet.
<br /> Specify a modification type in the fourth line of FileDirect.txt using short name symbol from RNAmod_info_Modomics.xml spreadsheet.
<br /> In terminal, run: ./RNAmod.R
<br /> The outputs are in .json format.

### Folders and files
Fasta: Contain two fasta files for testing.
<br /> R: All R scripts for sequences and mass calculations.
<br /> RNAmod_info_Modomics.xml: Spreadsheet containing RNA modification symbols and mass information from Modomics.
<br /> RNADigestCID_Workflow.pptx: Indicate hierarchy of the codes.
